#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\date{}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\headheight 2cm
\headsep 2cm
\footskip 1cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip bigskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Computing Methodologies III – Numerical Algorithms
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Tom Robson - hzwr87
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Part 1
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The implementation of step 1 begins by initialising the positions and velocities
 of the particles.
 Both of these can be done in two different ways.
 The position is normally allocated randomly, by calculating a random number
 between 0 and 1 in each dimension, but the option is present in the implementat
ion to specify the position of 2 particles (or moreas required) to facilitate
 the experiments in step 2.
 The initial velocity can either be set to zero, or a random value between
 
\begin_inset Formula $-10^{-5}$
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Formula $10^{-5}$
\end_inset

 depending on the timestep approach used, which will be discussed later.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
From this point, we then move onto the force calculations.
 We first select the particle we will be examining, and set its forces in
 each dimension to 0.
 We then loop through each of the rest of the particles and calculate the
 force that each is applying to our selected particle.
 Due to the wrap around forces, this must be done 27 times per particle
 to ensure the force that each image of each particle applies in the Lennard
 Jones model is applied in our simulation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For each image of the particle, we first calculate the distances in each
 dimension using the array of unit cubes, named 'boxes' in the code.
 From these distances, we compute the euclidean distance between the particle
 and each of these images.
 From here, we employ the Lennard Jones potential equation, and muliply
 this by the quotient of the distance in each dimension and the euclidean
 distance.
 The sum of these forces accross all images of all other particles give
 us our force being applied to our original particle.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We then use the product of this total force and the timestep size to calculate
 the new velocity, adding this on to the existing velocity in each dimension.
 After all the updated velocities have been calculated for all particles,
 we then do a new loop through all of the particles to update the position
 in each dimension by adding on the product of the timestep size and the
 velocity in each dimension.
 We then use floor division on these new positions to ensure the particles
 stay within the unit cube.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Like the calculations of the velocities, the timestep has been implemented
 two different ways.
 If the particles are given a starting velocity, the timestep is fixed at
 
\begin_inset Formula $10^{-6}$
\end_inset

.
 However, if the starting velocity is zero, then a varible time step has
 been implemented based on the euclidean distance between the closest two
 paticles.
 We use a threshold foor this smallest distance, if it is under 0.0002, the
 timestep is equal to the shortest distance, if it is over 0.0002, then the
 timestep is equal to 
\begin_inset Formula $r^{3}\times10^{12}$
\end_inset

, where r is the shortest distance.
 Both the equation and the threshold was determined by experimentation.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Brief description of step 1 is precise (2 marks), clear (2 marks) and addresses
 the three remarks given (3x2 marks).
 Use sketches and/or screenshots to make your report easy to follow
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It computes the right forces, it is efficient (no unnecessary calculations),
 it updates the particle positions correctly, and it realises the boundary
 conditions as described (5 marks each)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
IMPLEMENT VARIABLE TIME STEPS - distance related to time step^2
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Also done initial velocity as per FAQ
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Part 2
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
WE ARE ALLOWED TO CHANGE A AND S FOR THE EXPERIMENTS WITH 2 PARTICLES IF
 I EXPLAIN IT
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Per setup: Result is correct qualitatively (2 marks), convergence rate is
 reasonable w.r.t.
 time step size (4 marks), description is accurate and precise (2 marks),
 results are interpreted correctly (2 marks).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Use N=2 and place the particles without any velocity at x=(0.4,0.5,0.5) and
 x=(0.6,0.5,0.5).
 What happens qualitatively? Run your experiments with different time steps
 over a fixed time interval T.
 Ensure that T is chosen such that the sign of F at least flips twice.
 Track the final position.
 What can you observe w.r.t.
 accuracy and the ODE characteristics? 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Rerun the same experiment with x=(0.1,0.5,0.5) and x=(0.9,0.5,0.5).
 What happens?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Rerun the experiment with N=100, N=1,000, N=10,000, N=100,000, and so forth
 where all particles are placed randomly within the cube.
 As the cube is fixed, adding more particles increases the gas density,
 i.e.
 we start to study condensation/saturation processes.
 What can you observe quantitatively and what can you observe in terms of
 cost (time to solution)?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Part 3
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Idea - struct contaning the coordinates of each particle and an array of
 all others within radius by calculating how far away the box would go in
 every direction and looping through the particles and adding if they meet
 the constraints (be careful of wraparound)
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Brief description of step 3 is precise and clear (5 marks).
 Runtime impact is experimentally determined and explanation for runtime
 behaviour is given (5 marks).
 Error is determined through Taylor expansion (5 marks).
 All experiments are rerun and results are discussed (5 marks).
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
