#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language british
\language_package none
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding default
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 0
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 0
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 0
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style agsm
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date true
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\headheight 2cm
\headsep 2cm
\footskip 1cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip bigskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Software, Systems and Applications - Cloud Computing
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
hzwr87
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For this scenario the product we will consider is an internet enabled car.
 This would record data about how the various components of the car are
 functioning under various conditions.
 This would also monitor the mileage covered by the user and their driving
 style, in order to inform the manufacturer if components are easily damaged
 in certain conditions that they may not have been able to produce in testing.
 Below, we shall examine the considerations this company should make for
 implementing an IT infrastructure for this purpose.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This system will require involve each car sending condition updates and
 data regarding the driving style of the owner  back to the manufacturer
 at regular intervals.
 This means that the manufacturer will require a server of some kind to
 handle this communication, and a large database to store the data sent
 back .
 Once this data has been received, it must then be processed effectively
 using a machine learning algorithm to provide the company with effective
 statistics for the condition of their cars in different real world circumstance
s.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
TALK ABOUT BENEFITS OF CLOUD FOR SERVERS, DATABASES AND PROCESSING SEPARATELY
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this scenario, pushing the majority of this functionality to the public
 cloud has many advantages.
 The first of these is mass storage.
 For the car company we are discussing here, this would be very important,
 as they would have a huge amount of cars on the road all sending back a
 large amount of data on the status of the car and how it has been driven.
 If the company were to purchase sufficient hardware to perform the functionalit
y they require, it would cost them a huge amount in hardware, and they would
 need somewhere to store it.
 As a consequence of this, it would be far better to utilise the hardware
 of a cloud service provider.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Also, the amount of hardware required for this purpose is variable.
 Once the first model of car with this capability on board is released,
 for the first few weeks and months the number of cars with this technology
 in them will be relatively few, so the number of servers and databases
 that will be required will also be relatively few.
 As more of the cars are sold, more data will be sent and received, and
 thus more hardware will be required.
 The amount of communication will also vary at different times of the day,
 being much higher at rush hour when people are commuting, and at the weekend.
 The cloud approach will mean that the amount of hardware needed will be
 able to vary to respond to demand, which is a far more efficient use of
 money than the company buying their own hardware and having it always running
 irrespective of demand.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another advantage of using a cloud provider to provide this functionality
 is the availability of data.
 A company like the one we are considering here is likely to have many offices
 all around the world, and if they handled this in house, it would have
 to be either all at one location or split into smaller chunks around multiple
 locations.
 This could lead to a problem of lack of availability of data to some locations,
 which would be mitigated by using a cloud system.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
############
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One of the major focuses of the major cloud providers currently is security.
 As a result of this, they are investing large amounts of their resources
 in developing their security capabilities, and as such are considered a
 safe bet to provide the functionality that many companies require.
 Developing effective security requires a tremendous investment, and given
 that this investment has been made by the public cloud providers, this
 means that companies like our car company do not have to incur these costs
 themselves.
 This is another clear advantage of using the public cloud.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this situation, security is very important as some personal data is being
 recorded.
 Even if the system does not directly store information about who the owners
 of the cars are, it will have information such as registration plates or
 internal company car IDs that could be used to map cars to owners.
 As the data being recorded is based on positional data, if the aforementioned
 association between the cars and people can be made then the data can be
 used to track people, which leads to legal and ethical problems.
 It is therefore very important for the car company that they ensure that
 this data is secured appropriately, both by them and their choice of cloud
 provider, as the customer is responsible for security in the cloud, whereas
 the provider is responsible for the cloud 
\series bold
(Amazon, find proper reference)
\series default
.
 They must ensure that the provider that they select has an appropriate
 data protection policy in place, with particular emphasis on the data only
 being made available to the company, or those that they have approved.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
############
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Critical points of failure
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Client Facing?? - not much
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
############
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Cost considerations
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
HOW TO MINIMISE AND PREDICT
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
############
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Pick the provider
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
############
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Conclusion - The internet of things and cloud computing are inherently linked.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
bibfiles "cloud"
options "plain"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
