#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Computing Metodologies - Distributed Computing 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Besides the Alpha synchronizer, the Beta synchronizer is another known synchroni
zer.
 Using the slides of the practical as a starting point, research this synchroniz
er and answer the following questions: 
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Describe how Beta works (it is not necessary to write pseudocode).
 (10)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Compare Beta to Alpha .
 What are the advantages and disadvantages of Beta over Alpha ? Refer particular
ly to their complexities.
 (10)
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Another known synchronizer is the synchronizer Gamma .
 Research this synchronizer and describe how Gamma works (it is not necessary
 to write pseudocode.) Also explain the time and message overheads of Gamma
 and argue that both Alpha and Beta can be seen as special cases of Gamma.
 (30)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Consider Algorithm 3 on page 24 in the textbook (Distributed Computing,
 Attiya and Welch, 2nd edition, ISBN 0471453242).
 This algorithm is called the depth- rst search spanning tree algorithm
 for a specified root" (DFSr).
 As stated in the textbook, the message complexity of DFSr is O(m) when
 the input is a a network topology graph G on n vertices and m edges.
 
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Determine the time complexity of DFSr.
 (15)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
We apply the synchronizer Alpha on DFSr.
 What are the resulting time and message complexities? (10)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
We apply the synchronizer Beta on DFSr.
 What are the resulting time and message complexities? (10)
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Consider the Consensus algorithm discussed in lecture 6.
 Can we ap- ply Alpha on this algorithm to solve the consensus problem in
 an asyn- chronous system in the presence of crash failures? Answer the
 same ques- tion with respect to Beta and also with respect to Gamma .
 Justify your answers.
 (15)
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
